Q-what is the use of @Profile annotation.
Answer:
Like as a developer we will be working in different environments supposed we developed something we will be running
it locally in develop env and for testing we need to send it to qa team they will be having a qa env .
so the set of db configuration and server configuration will be different right hence will be using profiling for
so that it can take up application properties from specific property files.
Spring Boot’s Profiles allow developers to manage these configurations easily.
@PropertySource:
Suppose our dev profile is active and we want to pick a specific profile from the prod env file we don't want to use the db configuration and server configuration from the prod file we can use @PropertySource mentioning the file 
name it will pick the specific property.

@Profile:
so in @Profile(prod) if we mentioning the evn and in master properties file we have the active profile as prod then
only it will creat the bean of that class otherwise it will throw resource not found url.
Note: Make sure not to use profiling in master application.property, Use it in vm arg or while running jar you can provid -D spring.profile.active= dev.


What is @SpringBoot annotation?
@SpringBootConfiguration
@EnableAutoConfiguration
@ComponentScan

@SpringBootConfiguration:
Will tag the class as a source of bean defination.
So for the whole application we will be getting the bean in the main class and this creation of bean is actually
Supported by the other two annotations.

@EnableAutoConfiguration
Whatever dependecies we add in pom.xml are set of jars we dowonload from the central repositories.
So for a specific dependency @EnableAutoConfiguration is repsonsible to do all the autoconfiguraiton related to that dependency.If we have starter-web dependecny it will automatically configure the tomcat server and spring mvc for us. if we have starter jpa it will configure the datasouce and entity manager for us

@ComponentScan
It will scan all the subpackages class inside the defaault class looking for bean and responsible for managing the 
lifecycle of those beans in spring container.

What is the difference between configuration and bean?
Ans- @Component is a class level annotation
     @Component represents a general level bean.
     Automatically creates a bean of the class while component scan , auto scanned by spring.
     @Component we cannot write the logic for the specific bean 

     @Bean is a method level annotation
     @Bean represents used to explicitly declare a bean.
     @Externally need to do the configuration by adding @configuration on a class and inside method we can add @Bean annotation on every method.  
     @Bean while creating we can give our own logic, like some true, false condition if condition is true it will create a bean if it's not true it won't      create.


in which scenarios we can use @bean and @component
For @Bean
->Conditional interface is there based on condition it will return the bean,if that condition is true it will return the bean or else it won't return any bean.
-> we can write the logic for the bean either we can return a custom value or a default value

For @Component 
-> We don't have such condition as the component scan will look for the @Component annotation and automate the process and will create the bean of that particular class.
-> But in case of @Component we can write the logic for the bean.



q-What are the advantages of spring boot?
->Spring boot is the enhancement of the existing spring framework with minimal configuration.
->In springframework lot of configuration has to be taken care by the programmer but in spring boot it is reduced.
->Spring boot is mainly used to develop rest apis
->The primary feature of spring-boot is autoconfiguration
->Spring boot provides embedded server such as tomcat,jetty and netty


Spring framework vs Spring boot?
->Starter pom
with starter pom our maven configuration get simplified
so if you take example of spring-starter-web it fetch all the dependencies relate to develop a web application 
using spring boot
->Version Management:
In spring based project version has to be taken care by programmer itself
so it will take what is the latest version of child dependency that is compatible to parent version.
But in spring-boot their is a starter pom which take of the version management of all the child dependencies
->AutoConfiguration
If you see only in spring based application you can find a lot xml configuration, in spring boot this we get rid of this xml files.
->Component Scanning:
It is used to identify which classes need to be consider as a spring bean in our application.
Actually in spring based project programmer has to manually make which packages should be consider as spring bean.
In spirng boot project @SpringBoot annotation provide us the @component scan.
->Embeded server
for spring based project externally you need to configure a server, where as in spring boot application we have embedded server already as tomcat, jetty and etc.

Q- Depedency Injection?
Injecting the dependend object into a target object is called dependency injection.
Suppose the controller class wants to communicate with the service class so we need to inject service class objec into the controller class.
So when the dependency injection is taken care by spring framework our classes will loosely coupled in our application.



-------------------------------------------
which db you are using in your appllication and how did you integrate?
Ans:


